# Excel Sales Analytics

**Background:**

AtliQ Hardware is a prominent supplier of computer hardware and
peripherals operating across India. With its headquarters situated in
Delhi, the company boasts an extensive network of regional offices
throughout the country.

As part of their strategic initiatives, AtliQ Hardware embarked on a
mission to enhance their sales analytics capabilities. The objective was
clear: to gain deeper insights into their sales performance, identify
emerging trends, and uncover opportunities for revenue optimization. To
achieve this goal, the company sought to leverage the power of data
analytics and visualization tools.

In response to this challenge, I undertook the project to develop
Excel-based sales analytics solutions tailored to the specific needs of
AtliQ Hardware. The aim was to provide a comprehensive platform that
enables the company to extract actionable insights from their sales
data, empowering them to make informed decisions and drive business
growth.

The goal of this project was not only to provide AtliQ Hardware with a
tool for analyzing past sales performance but also to equip them with
the capabilities to forecast future trends and devise proactive
strategies. By harnessing the power of Excel Sales Analytics, AtliQ
Hardware aims to strengthen its position in the market, drive
operational efficiency, and unlock new avenues for growth.

**Methodologies Used:**

In the Excel Sales Analytics project for AtliQ Hardware, both Power
Query and Power Pivot played crucial roles in extracting, transforming,
modeling, and analyzing sales data to derive meaningful insights.
Here\'s how these tools were utilized:

**Power Query:**

**Data Extraction:**

Power Query was utilized to extract sales data from CSV files provided
by AtliQ Hardware and were imported into Excel.

**Data Transformation:**

Once imported, Power Query was used to transform and clean the raw sales
data. Tasks such as removing duplicate entries, changing data formats,
and handling null values were performed to ensure data consistency and
accuracy. Power Query\'s intuitive interface facilitated the process of
shaping the data according to the project requirements.

**Data Integration:**

Multiple data sources were integrated using Power Query to create a
unified dataset for analysis. Data from different regions or continents,
as well as product information, were merged and transformed to prepare
for further analysis.

**Power Pivot:**

**Data Modeling:**

Power Pivot was employed to create a robust data model within Excel.
Relationships between various tables such as sales data, customer
information, and product details were established using Power Pivot.

**Advanced Analysis:**

With the data model in place, Power Pivot enabled advanced analysis of
sales performance and trends. Calculated measures were created using DAX
(Data Analysis Expressions) to derive key performance indicators such as
net sales figures, market performance versus targets, and product
trends. Pivot tables were generated based on the data model to visualize
sales performance across different dimensions. The interactive nature of
Power Pivot facilitated on-demand exploration of sales data, enabling
users to answer specific business questions as they arose.

**Key Insights Derived:**

-   Customer net sales performance analysis revealed trends and patterns
    in revenue generation across different customer segments.

-   Market performance analysis compared actual sales figures with
    predefined targets, identifying areas of overperformance and
    underperformance.

-   Identification of the top 10 products provided insights into
    high-demand products, guiding inventory management and marketing
    strategies.

-   Reports across various continents aided in understanding regional
    sales dynamics and potential market expansion opportunities.

-   Analysis of top and bottom-performing products facilitated product
    portfolio optimization and informed product development strategies.

-   Identification of new products launched in 2021 highlighted the
    company\'s innovation initiatives and their impact on sales.

-   Country-wise sales analysis identified top-performing countries,
    guiding strategic sales, and marketing efforts for geographical
    expansion.

**Conclusion:**

The Excel Sales Analytics project serves as a comprehensive solution for
AtliQ Hardware to enhance its revenue-generating strategies and maximize
performance across various dimensions. By integrating methodologies such
as ETL, Power Query, Power Pivot, and DAX formulas, this project offers
actionable insights into sales performance, market trends, and customer
behavior, empowering the company to make data-driven decisions and
achieve sustainable growth in the competitive computer hardware market.
